# Interrogating RNA-IP Data to Assess Androgen Receptor Protein Interaction with Long Non-Coding RNA NORAD

Background: Prostate cancer is the most common cancer that occurs in men. One of the primary factors of disease progression in the condition is androgens and androgen receptor (AR). Androgens, otherwise referred to as male sex hormones, trigger prostate cancer cells to divide and multiply, whereas ARs are steroid receptors that are essential to gene expression and are activated by binding to androgens. In order to target prostate cancer, pharmacological methods of androgen deprivation therapy have been trialed to date and have aimed to block AR to prevent androgen synthesis. The hormone therapy can suppress prostate cancer, but often cancer can cause mutation of the AR and resultantly adapts to survive without the need to interact with androgens. This phenomenon causes castrate-resistant prostate cancer. Non-coding RNA activated by DNA damage (NORAD), which is highly abundant, conserved long non-coding RNA (lncRNA) has previously been reported to promote the metastasis and cell proliferation of prostate cancer cells. Likewise, the expression of NORAD is altered in the xenograft tissue of castrated mice. Thus, we hypothesized that NORAD expression might be regulated by AR. 

Materials and Methods: Three forms of data were used to test the hypothesis: RIP-seq, RNA-seq, and ChIP-seq data. In order to examine sequence alignment, STAR and Salmon aligners were used to analyze RIP-seq and RNA-seq data and the bowtie2 aligner was used to evaluate ChIP-seq data. Differential gene expression analysis using edgeR was performed to investigate the relationship between NORAD and the AR protein. 

Results: RIP-seq and RNA-seq analysis demonstrated statistically non-significant FDR results  of NORAD. Accordingly, the null hypothesis was accepted; there was no significant difference in NORAD gene expression between androgen treatment and control samples. Additionally, no peak was noted within the NORAD transcript for RIP-seq analysis and at NORAD promoter site for ChIP-seq analysis. This indicated that there were no AR binding sites in RNA and DNA sequences of NORAD. Therefore, there is no supporting  evidence to suggest that NORAD is associated with AR protein in our analysis. 

Discussion: This study and its findings were limited by small numbers of RIP-seq and RNA-seq data that were deposited into the NCBI database, and these were from only one prostate cancer cell line (LNCaP). Two possible causes for the lack of association between NORAD and the AR protein are gene-gene interaction and epigenetics. The gene expression of NORAD may be affected by significantly higher expressed genes. Likewise, epigenetic change may be influenced by several factors, such as histone modification and DNA methylation, which may ultimately influence NORAD gene expression. 
